#summary Changes in the project

= HiTS =

== Changes from 0.3.0 to 0.4.0 ==
Data 20th August 2009

One new node:
 - *Scores to p-values* allows to compute P(Z<=x) (the Erf function) with an estamated frequency from a population.

The content is now more modular, separated the nodes depending on KNIME Lab's distmatrix to ie.tcd.imm.hits.exp, and introduced a lightweight ancestor project: ie.tcd.imm.hits.common.

Bugs fixed:
 * Issue 11 - configuration is now available in cellHTS2's outport
 * Issue 22 - variance adjustment works again
 * Issue 23 - contents no longer mixed in results
 * Issue 25 - more detailed error messages

New features:
 * The export of colour legend is now working better, more options present.
 * It is possible to suppress the generation of HTML report in cellHTS2.
 * Support for 384 well plates in Plate Heatmap, and the other nodes.
 * Small bug fixes.

New nodes in exp (0.4.0) plugin:
 * Leaf Ordering - computes the [http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/19/9/1070 optimal leaf ordering] for a hierarchical clustered tree.
 * Reverse Order - changes the ordering of the tree leaves to the opposite.

== Changes from 0.2.0 to 0.3.0 ==
Date: 29th May 2009

No new nodes, no incompatible updates.

Updated the the 3rd party dependencies project, to prevent any problems with possibly old Rserve. The bundled Rserve client is now 0.6.0.

 * Issue 13 fixed, the update site should work correctly with eclipse 3.4, or above.
 * Issue 15 done, added new example workflows, check [Usage#Try_it Usage] for details.
 * Issue 18 fixed, this release is compatible with both cellHTS2 2.6.x, and cellHTS2 2.8.x. (Some problems identified in cellHTS2 2.8.0 also fixed.)
 * Issue 19 fixed, before overwrites now it asks.
 * Issue 20 fixed, the Distance Calculator Feature is now optional.

New features:
 * There is a tooltip in the well layout legend, indicating what is at that area.
 * It is possible to use custom normalisation/scoring methods when {{{knime.expert.mode}}} is {{{true}}} (put {{{-Dknime.expert.mode=true}}} after {{{-vmargs}}} in your knime.ini file to access this feature).
 * It is possible to save the colour legend in the heatmap nodes.

== Changes from 0.1.1 to 0.2.0 ==
Date: 5th May 2009 (available since 30th April 2009)

Added 3 new nodes:
 * Simple Heatmap (Data Views/)
 * Dendrogram with Heatmap (HiTS/) (based on the original Hierarchical Clustering node, thanks for the KNIME GMbH, but compatible only with the New Hierarchical Clustering node from KNIME labs)
 * Sort by Cluster (Distance Matrix/)

Renames:
 * Heatmap -> Plate Heatmap
 * Importer -> INCell xls Importer

Improved the Colour selection forms (except the one in the selection of default).

Documentation reviewed, improved. Many thanks to Dr. Dara Dunican.

Updated the update site, so from this point it will handle installs from eclipse 3.4 or above. See issue #13.

Added an [http://hits.googlecode.com/svn/ie.tcd.imm.knime.test/trunk/testdata/plate8/ example workflow] and [http://hits.googlecode.com/svn/ie.tcd.imm.knime.test/trunk/testdata/workflows/sampleCellHTS2/ sample data]. See issue #15. Thanks for Amanda Birmingham to allow to use her NoiseMaker program to generate the data set.

More robust handling of input data with CellHTS2 node (support for missing values, NaNs, works correctly with 1 replicate, and more than 9 (but less than 1000) parameters).

The Plate Heatmap (also Simple Heatmap, Dendrogram with Heatmap) now accepts missing values too.

The nodes with views handle better their resets.

Added a Help button to the configuration of the CellHTS2 node. It opens the help page describing the options.

As a problem fixed in KNIME 2.0.2 a filter added to the parameter columns in CellHTS2 node. By default it excludes the Plate, Replicate, Position columns.

The Ranking node's configuration panel is fixed, not it shows the proper values for the first open too.

== Changes from 0.1.0 to 0.1.1 ==
Date: 4th March 2009

Some bugfixes, little improvements, an incompatible update (using normalise instead of normalize in [RankNode Rank] node), added user documentation and some help to interpret the settings ([CellHTS2Node CellHTS2] and [HeatmapNode Heatmap] nodes).

= KNIME utilities =
== Changes from 0.1.0 to 0.2.0 ==
Date 20th August 2009

Created icons for those that did not have.

Added a new node:
 - Subsets - generates subsets of the selected columns.

== Changes from 0.0.1 to 0.1.0 ==
Date: 12th June 2009

The new version supports HiLite in these nodes. Updated documentation.

Added a new node:
 - Merge - allows to reorder the rows for Pivot node.

== Version 0.0.1 ==
Available since: 15th April 2009 (as version 0.0.1)

3 nodes:
 * Direct product
 * Pivot
 * Unpivot

= Interoperability =
== Version 0.0.1 ==
Date: 20th August 2009

2 nodes:
 * BioConverter - converts between different column formats
 * Plate Format - converts between different plate layouts.
