#summary Helps to use HiTS
#labels Featured
= Usage =

After you have [InstallDependencies installed all dependencies] and the [Install HiTS plugins] you are almost ready to use this program. (We are assuming you have set the proxy settings if you need them in one of the previous steps.)

== Additional preparations ==
If you want to use the *[CellHTS2Node CellHTS2]*, or *[biomaRtAnnotatorNode biomaRt Annotator]* node, you have to start Rserve.

== Starting KNIME ==
When you are analysing large experiments your default memory size set for KNIME may be not enough. In that case you should increase the memory, by changing the line starting with {{{-Xmx}}} in your knime.ini file. {{{-Xmx1024M}}} is not a bad choice if your computer has enough physical memory installed.

After this you can start your KNIME installation.

== Configure your preferences ==
After you have started KNIME you should see (in your default KNIME perspective) the HiTS nodes in the [NodeRepository Node Repository].

You can customise your preferences in the *File*/*Preferences...* menu. There you can find *KNIME*/*HiTS Preferences*. On that page you have several options:

 * {{{Use names instead of numbers for channels}}} - If selected, your *[CellHTS2Node CellHTS2]* nodes will give their results in HTML files and node outports with the parameter names collected from the xls files instead of the not too descriptive {{{ch_1}}}, ... names. The usage of this option depends on the {{{Use TCD extension?}}} option. It must be checked if you want parameter names.
 * {{{Use TCD extension?}}} - This option allows you to analyse multiple parameters in one run. The results in HTML files will be from left to right.
 * {{{Column order}}} - In this area you may select which results in which order you want to get in the topTable.txt, and the outports of *[CellHTS2Node CellHTS2]* node. You may get more information on [ColumnOrderPreferences this page].

The usage of the nodes is similar to the other KNIME nodes. You can get more help on their [NodeDescription Node Description] views, or the wiki pages listed below:
 * *[CellHTS2Node CellHTS2]* - calls [http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/cellHTS2.html CellHTS2] and generates HTML report; the statistics are also available on the outports. (You need a [RunningRserve running Rserve] on your computer with cellHTS2 installed.)
 * *[INCellAnalyser1000ImporterNode Importer]* - reads some xls files generated by [http://www5.gelifesciences.com/aptrix/upp01077.nsf/Content/incell_site~IN_Cell_Analyzer_1000 IN Cell Analyser 1000], and if set adds gene symbols/ids from a tab separated file.
 * *[SimpleConfiguratorForCellHTS2Node Simple Configurator for CellHTS2]* - reads the plate configuration and the description from different files.
 * *[biomaRtAnnotatorNode biomaRt Annotator]* - adds [http://www.biomart.org/ BioMart] annotations to the results based on the selected preferences and the given gene ids. (It is using the [http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/2.2/bioc/html/biomaRt.html biomaRt R package].) (You need a [RunningRserve running Rserve] on your computer with biomaRt installed, also internet access.)
 * *[HeatmapNode Heatmap]* - allows you to visualise the results of your analysis in a plate based view.
 * *[RankNode Rank]* - gives ranks to your selected parameters' selected statistics.

== Common use cases ==
This [http://hits.googlecode.com/svn/ie.tcd.imm.hits/trunk/ie.tcd.imm.hits/help/usage.xhtml page] shows some usecases of the program with KNIME.

== Try it ==
You can find workflows in [http://code.google.com/p/hits/source/browse/#svn/ie.tcd.imm.knime.test/trunk/testdata this folder]'s subfolders if you want to try without problems. For sample data check [http://code.google.com/p/hits/source/browse/#svn/ie.tcd.imm.knime.test/trunk/testdata/plate8 this folder]. Sample data created with Amanda Birmingham's NoiseMaker program.

== Reporting Bugs, Request Features ==
If you encounter a bug, please report it at [http://code.google.com/p/hits/issues/list this page]. It is also for feature requests. Please be so kind if you see the same request or bug there then just *star* it. Thank you.